---
title: 'Pharo Introduction'
date: 2024-09-07
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Pharo
  - Smalltalk
  - Beginner
---

# What is Pharo ?

- Pharo is an open-source, dynamic programming environment and language that is centered around the Smalltalk programming language. It is designed for live, object-oriented programming, where developers can interact with the system as it runs, making changes and immediately seeing their effects. 

- Pharo provides a powerful, integrated development environment (IDE) that allows developers to inspect, modify, and test their code while it's running without needing to restart applications.

---

# Why use Pharo ?

1. Live Coding: Pharo supports live, real-time coding, allowing for immediate feedback and interactive development. Developers can alter the system while it's running, which enables dynamic exploration and debugging.

2. Object-Oriented: Pharo is purely object-oriented, meaning everything in the system is represented as objects, including primitive types like numbers and characters. This makes it highly flexible and extensible.

3. Dynamic Typing: Pharo uses dynamic typing, meaning types are checked at runtime rather than compile time. This provides more flexibility during development but can require careful testing.

4. Image-based System: Pharo maintains the entire state of the system in an "image," which can be saved and restored. This means that when a Pharo program is running, the whole system, including all objects and their relationships, is preserved between sessions.

5. Rich Tooling: Pharo includes powerful development tools such as a code browser, inspector, debugger, and versioning systems, all integrated into its environment.

6. Modularity and Extensibility: Pharo is highly modular and can be extended with external libraries and frameworks. It's also the basis for several other projects and frameworks used in research, education, and industry.

Getting
Pharo is often used in academic environments, research, and for experimental programming due to its flexibility and focus on live development and reflection.
